# Communication In A Connected World
 Networking are deviced connected together to share resources and exchange data.
 The internet  are networks connected to each other. It is made of thousands of local networks that are connected to eachother that is why it is considered netowrk of networks.
 Data is a raw unprocessed facts or observations used to learn about something.
## Types
1. Volunteered data: Data offered by yourself.
2. Infered data: Data collected from you that is generated by your activities.
3. Observed data: It the act of recording the actions of Individuals eg location data.
   

## Host, Clients and Servers
 - Host are computers connected to a network that contributes to network communication.
 - Servers: Servers are host that have software installed which enable them to provide information to other host on the network eg email and webpages.
 - Clients Computer host that have software installed that enables the host to request and display information obtained from the server eg web browser.


## Peer-to-Peer Network
Peer to peer (p2p) is a computer that act as both the client and the server software.

-- Advantage of p2p
  - Easy to set up.
  - Less complex.
  - Lower cost.
  - Can be used for simple task such as transferring a file and shaaring a printer.

-- Disadvantage of p2p
  - No centralized administration.
  - Not as secure.
  - Not scalable.
  - Devices acting as both the client and server will slow the performance.



## Netowrk Components
Network infrastructure is a platform that supports the network. It provides the stable and reliable channel over which our communications can occur.

1. End devices: End devices are the user facing points in a network that originate, receive, or process data, acting as the interface between users and the network.
   Examples:
   - Desktop computer
   - Laptop
   - Printer
   - Ip phone
   - Wireless tablet
   - Teleprescence endpoint

2. Intermediate devices: Intermediary devices are the ones that connect end devices and allow data transmission on a network.
   Examples:
   - Wireless router
   - Lan switch
   - Router
   - Multilayer switch
   - Firewall Appliances

3. Network Type: A network type refers to the classification of a network based on its geographical scale.
   Examples:
   - PAN (Personal Area Network)
   - LAN (Local Area Network)
   - WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network)
   - CAN (Campus Area Network)
   - MAN (Metropolitan Area Network)
   - WAN (Wide Area Network)
  

## Internet Service Providers
An ISP provides the link between the home network and the internet
-- ISP methods
  - Cable
  - Digital suscribe line
  - Cellular
  - Satelite
  - Dial-up Telephone

